So if you haven't noticed, there's a couple things that I feel like are new today.
Number one, we're kind of back to full service. We have everything set up,
which I think was a new change, 'cause it's funny, whenever you haven't done this for a while,
we all kind of came in and went, "What do we do?"
It took us a little longer to set up, but it went really well.
I don't know any major issues yet.
And then we started what we have now,
a nursery for our whole service.
Which the first, I think it's a big step
as a church to be able to offer nursery
through the whole church service.
And so, so thankful for those volunteers.
And I say this every time,
no matter if it's just during the whole service
or half the service, when you go pick up your kids,
like slip a 20 to some of the volunteers in there.
And whatever you gotta do, you keep saying thank you.
And some of you go in there next week,
so tell them to slip you back the 20.
But whatever it takes.
I think sometimes when it comes to our children's classes, I know that they do an awesome job of taking care of our kids,
supporting them, loving on them, so that you have the opportunity to be able to worship, the opportunity to be able to sit under the Word of God.
And so I'm thankful for those volunteers and thankful that we get the opportunity to offer nursery throughout service,
and so I think that's a big step for us in our church.
So again, thank you to those who are serving in our children's school. I appreciate that.
But we are continuing our series in Matthew, Matthew chapter 7. We've got a couple more weeks that we're going to cover through Matthew chapter 7.
And then good news, I've been talking about the book of Genesis for probably about six months. I am jumping into it, the first week of September.
We'll get about 12 weeks in at the fourth end of the year, and I think we'll cover a lot, and so I'm super excited about that.
But we get to finish out Matthew chapter 7 today, so we'll be covering verses 13 through 23.
And today is one of those texts that if you knew I was preaching, you might not show up.
And some of you probably are like, "Hey, I followed along enough to know where we're going."
It's a tough text, and why I call it a tough text is it's pretty straightforward.
What it is, Jesus doesn't hold back. He's very specific, and He points out some things that really are going to touch the heart.
So I know for me it challenged me this weekend, and I know it's going to challenge you.
But I pray that it challenges you in a positive way.
And so as we walk through this, Matthew chapter seven,
really we're talking about the end of Jesus' sermon
on the mount.
He's covered a lot of things.
And he's beginning to teach his disciples
and some of his followers about the coming kingdom,
about the plan for the world,
of his rescue plan for the world.
He's teaching people how to live in this kingdom.
And then today, he's really saying this statement,
and this is really where I hope that maybe
to try and draw some in here, is that Jesus is saying,
you can't fake your way into the kingdom of God.
You cannot fake your way into the kingdom of God.
And that's pretty much what he says without saying it.
But he's really trying to help us see
what a true follower of Christ is
and allow us to evaluate whether we are.
And I'm not gonna ask by a show of hands,
but I will say this.
When we think about, if any of you have ever
snuck into a place that maybe you weren't the right age
if you had a fake ID and you were able to get in,
or maybe you talked your way in.
I'll give you a quick example of a non-bad way.
The first time I ever took working on an unofficial date,
we went to a midnight movie.
Here was the problem.
I wasn't old enough to be out after midnight,
although I didn't know that.
And so I had to talk my way into the movie,
and I did, and I got in because he let me in.
And that's kind of funny,
but honestly, when we think about God,
when we get to heaven,
we're not gonna be able to talk our way in.
We're not gonna be able to fake our way in.
We're not gonna be able to pull out a resume
of all the things we've done
He'll prove the way we did it. No, He knows our heart, He knows our actions, He knows everything about us,
and there'll be no way to fake our way in.
And so, when we realize this today, that there's only one way to heaven is through Jesus,
but He's gonna specifically point out that it's not only through Jesus, but it's through Jesus,
and that relationship with Jesus is a faithfulness to God in His ways.
He talks about following His will, and this can really come across today as a very works-based salvation,
and I want to be as clear as I can on the front end,
this is not what he is saying,
but what he is saying is those who have given their lives
to Christ will have an outflow of following his will.
And if that does not reflect that,
that may be a key sign that you have not
truly accepted Christ.
And that, again, is what he is trying to point to us today.
And so, it's gonna really challenge us with this idea,
does what I say, I believe, match how I live my life?
Or is my life portraying something different?
And I would even say it this way is,
if I could not speak, would my actions
portray that I follow Jesus?
Would my actions portray that I follow Jesus?
And so my goal today, I wanna be as clear as I can,
my goal today is to not cause you to doubt your salvation.
I would say this, there's some preachers
that it seems like every Sunday
that you show up to their service,
they're trying to convince you you're lost
so that you'll give your life to Christ again
and again and again and again.
And that's never been my goal as a pastor.
But I believe that this text doesn't just necessarily
cause us to doubt our salvation.
That's not the goal, but really to clearly confirm it,
or to clearly confirm the lack of it, if that makes sense.
To clearly confirm it, or clearly confirm the lack of it.
And as I was sitting back there doing worship,
I wanna quote this verse, something just came to my mind
as I began to think about
what's my heart with this message?
And I believe my heart with this message,
and the message of Jesus is from James chapter five.
says this in James chapter 5 verses 19 and 20.
It says, "My brothers and sisters,
"if any of you among you strays from the truth
"and someone turns him back,
"let that person know that whoever turns a sinner
"from the error of his way will save his soul from death
"and cover up one's sin."
So I pray that as we walk through the Word today
that that's my heart today,
is that I'm able to be able to share in such a way
that maybe there'll be one, maybe there'll be two,
maybe there'll be somebody that you know
that you need to go share with
that will turn them back to God, and it will save them from the errors of their way, because God desires to do that every day in our lives.
So let's dive into the message here in Matthew chapter 7, verses 13 through 23 is what we're going to read.
So it says this, it says, "Enter through the narrow gate, for the gate is wide and the road is broad, and leads to destruction,
And there are many who will go through it.
How narrow is the gate and how difficult the road that leads to life, and few find it.
He says, "Be on guard against false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing,
but inwardly are ravaging wolves.
You'll recognize them by their fruit.
Are grapes gathered from the thorn bushes or figs from thistles?
In the same way, every tree produces good fruit, but a bad tree produces bad fruit.
A good tree can't produce bad fruit, and neither can a bad tree produce good fruit.
Every tree that doesn't produce good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire, so you'll recognize them by their fruit.
And then he says, "Not everyone who says to me, 'Lord, Lord,' will enter the kingdom of heaven, but only the one who does the will of my Father in heaven."
On that day many will say to the Lord, say to me, Lord, Lord, did we prophesy in your name?
Did we drive out demons in your name? And did we do many miracles in your name?
And then I will announce to them, I never knew. Depart from me, you all that know.
Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we pray, Lord, that our hearts are open.
Lord, to whatever you want to speak to us, Lord, I pray that if there's some of this room, Lord, that we be,
And I would say spurred on back to the faith or maybe it's to be drawn to conviction of their sin
To maybe just turn their lives over to you Lord. I pray that you change their lives today.
So I want to give you a little bit of background whenever we think about who Jesus is talking to so when we think about Jesus
Who's talking to his disciples or followers on this mountain?
Many other people came
What we are beginning to find is the majority of the people that are spending time listening to this message
would be Jews. And if you know much about the Jews, if you study in the Old Testament, the Jews were God's people.
They were set apart for a purpose to be a light to the world of how God has a special people in a relationship.
That ultimately God wanted to be a reflection of what he wanted for all.
And so as a Jew, they felt very privileged in that relationship or that idea that they were God's chosen people.
So as he's speaking to these people,
and Jesus is talking about the narrow way and the wide way,
they would quickly assume we're on the narrow,
we're the few, we're the remnant that God has saved.
And so it would be easy for them to sit there and say,
"Hey, Jesus is talking about us, like we're good."
But I believe that Jesus is really trying
to even speak to them and say,
"Hey, you may be self-deceived."
And what I would say is like,
Today we're gonna talk about some,
some, what would we say, teachers or false teachers
that will be trying to persuade us away from Christ.
But I believe the greatest danger
that we're gonna talk about today is the self-deception.
And so I started even thinking about this.
What about us in this church?
What about the world?
What are some things in the world
that maybe they're thinking that they're okay
if they were to hear this message?
Maybe us, what are we thinking?
And this is what it is.
Many believe they're good with God
because number one, they attend church.
They believe they're good with God because they're members
or they were baptized at some point in their life.
We'll find out that as we begin to talk with people,
sometimes it's just because they give to the church,
we're good.
I've even heard people say this,
I'm good because I was raised in the church.
My dad was a deacon.
My father was a pastor.
I'm good.
And so when I think about this,
I think we can find ourselves easily beginning
to put this line of things together of saying we're good
because of X, Y, and Z,
rather than truly understanding what it means
to follow Jesus and what good it means.
And so it is possible to know the right language.
It's possible to believe intellectually the right doctrines.
It's possible to obey the right rules
and still not be saved.
I'll define that a little bit more as we go on today,
but understanding that, just saying the right thing
doesn't mean that we're saved,
doesn't mean that we are following Jesus.
And so Jesus' message today is clear.
you do not get an automatic passage into heaven
because of being in the church
or you fill in the blank with that.
And if you don't believe that this message is already real,
we're just diving in.
It's a tough message, right?
So the first point here that we're gonna find
in verses 13 and 14 is this idea
that few find the path to salvation.
And this is hard to hear.
And the reason why it's hard to hear,
and this is where I'm gonna head off into, right?
The first thing that came to mind for me is
I've never heard somebody say when somebody passed away
that they went to hell.
I just haven't.
You always hear they're going to heaven.
You always hear they're my guardian angel,
they're watching me down from heaven,
they're in a better place.
We hear those statements and that's not a knock,
but what I'm saying is because that is peaceful to us.
But the truth is that that person never truly
surrendered their life to God
and followed the narrow path,
and that person is spending an eternity separated from God.
that is hard to hear.
But the reason why it's hard to hear
is because the majority of us, including myself,
will always want to make sure,
we want to force our way into saying
everybody's getting to heaven, right?
In a way, we won't say that, but we'll kind of say that.
And so this is saying that there is a narrow path,
few find it, right?
And he says this, that there is a clear path,
a wide, broad, and easy to find path
that leads to destruction, and he says many will find it.
And so you wanna know the reason why many find
the road to destruction?
It's easy.
It's a path of least resistance.
It's the easiest way to go because it doesn't,
means I don't have to change anything about my life.
It doesn't mean I have to give up some of my,
what I would say is the control over my life.
It means I need to, you know, I get to make all the rules.
If I go the easy way and assume everybody goes to heaven,
then life's just, that's easier for me.
And so he even makes that simple, right?
It's wide, it's easy.
It's the road that people know where to find
and it's easy to follow after.
But the path to eternal life is narrow
and not many choose to travel towards it.
Why?
Why do you guys believe?
I'm just gonna push this out to you.
Why do you believe that the path to salvation,
eternal life, is narrow and people hardly follow it?
Why?
It's challenging.
It's difficult.
It's hard.
It's different.
Let me just put that,
nobody wants to be in a room full of people
and look different where everybody's looking at them.
We all like to be accepted, we all wanna blend in,
we all wanna just don't wanna ruffle any feathers,
we wanna just not look different.
And so it is, it is difficult, right?
And so a question to ask ourselves this,
is when we gave our lives to Christ,
Did it cost you something to give your life to Christ?
And let me just add to that,
is it still costing you something?
I'll say that again.
When you gave your life to Christ,
if you did give your life to Christ,
did it cost you something?
And is it still costing you something?
I would say this, is we cannot just rest on
I was baptized this time,
or I professed faith at one point in my life,
but my life doesn't reflect it.
We can't just go back and rest on our laurels.
me and Matt were talking a little bit about this idea
of laurels and this idea that we wanna rest
on our past accomplishments or our past belief of,
well, that was something I did then
and I'm just kinda living my own life.
It's something that we constantly, every day,
are living and experiencing when it comes to our lives
of following Christ.
And so living a Christian life is not easy
because there's a couple things that we have to do.
Denying the ways of the world that is constantly
trying to convince us to live selfishly.
We are constantly fighting against temptations of the flesh.
We're constantly challenged
to put others' needs before ourself.
And we're also challenged as followers
to submit all our ways to the Lord,
all of our ways to the Lord.
And so it is not easy.
It's not easy because there's many that will profess Jesus,
but never leave the broad road to destruction.
I'll say that again.
that profess Jesus, but will never lead the broad road
to destruction, because it's easy to profess,
but it's not easy to follow.
And we're gonna continue to walk through this,
because I don't want you to just think again,
work salvation on this.
But I would say this, to have an easy Christian life
means that there's no demands on us,
which means it's okay, if I just attend church
once a month, I'm good.
If I let the pastor handle all the spiritual stuff,
then I'm good.
If I let everybody else in the church handle the evangelism,
I'm good because God hasn't called me to do that.
And then we begin to realize that we begin
to make excuses after excuses,
but I would say this,
that the Spirit of God that lives inside of us,
if we have given our lives of Christ,
will not allow us to sit there and sit still,
will not allow us not to follow the will of God
because conviction reigns in and draws us back to God.
And so when somebody would say this,
how do I know if I'm saved?
And I always ask the question,
is there conviction in your life
that consistently draws you back to God, to repentance?
And if not, that may be a clear sign.
Because if there's no conviction,
then at that point, what is there?
The Spirit of God is there to guide and direct us.
So we know this, but we know the narrow road
is more difficult, but I would say this, it's also better.
Why do we choose the narrow road?
It's better.
And I'll just give you a simple example in life.
Does anybody struggle with eating healthy?
And everybody's hands raise up, okay.
I would say this, I think many of us probably believe
and have experienced the other side of eating healthy.
You feel better, you rest better.
Life, I'm telling you, perspective just changes in life.
When you allow, and not just one day, just so you know,
you can't eat a salad for a day and feel amazing.
We're talking about eating healthy over time,
consistently, you see the benefits of it.
And that can be a wide range of things, right?
We can talk about finances, when you budget,
and you budget consistently, and you see the value
of the reward of actually budgeting, all those things,
right, you begin to see the better reasons why
of discipline in our lives.
And I may have just hit on two areas,
you guys just don't, okay.
That's not what salvation is, but what I'm pointing to
is at times we go, but the narrow road is hard.
but the narrow road is better, is greater.
Why do we choose the narrow road?
Not because it's easy, but because it's better.
And I would say that most of our lives,
we're consistently choosing some narrow roads
towards a career path or some things that we're doing.
Why?
Because it's better.
We know it's better for us.
And so we choose it for those,
but at times we don't choose it for the Lord.
So what I notice is that at times,
Most people don't like the idea of having to go through Jesus
to experience that narrow road, right?
It's easier for them to believe that all ways lead to God.
And this is a reminder that we cannot fall into that trap.
The word is clear that Jesus is the way,
the truth, and the life.
And at times, we're gonna have to swim upstream.
Anybody ever tried to swim against the current?
It is hard.
Anybody in here ever watched The Chosen series, anybody?
Okay, if you have, there's like three of you.
But at the beginning, there's always this introduction
and this really cool music, but these fish are swimming.
And all of a sudden, you'll just start seeing this fish
turn and go against the grain.
And it's difficult.
And there's very few of them,
but they're working against the current.
They're working against what the world
is trying to challenge them to do.
And so this road that God is challenging us
to take, the narrow road, is open to everyone,
but few will take it that leads to greater life.
And there's gonna be more to this,
so I'm just gonna kind of stop there.
we'll finish up at the end.
But the next section that we see here
is it talks about in verses 15 through 20
is that fruit reveals false teachers.
And I begin to think through this.
You know, it's beginning to challenge us.
Take the narrow road, not the wide gate,
the wide road that leads to destruction.
And then it quickly goes into false teachers.
And I begin to do a study and just thinking through this.
And I've been teaching through books of the Bible
consistently here in our church.
Do you know there's like four or five different writers
that address false teaching?
If they're addressing false teaching,
Do you think that that's an issue in the world
and one we need to watch out for?
And so Jesus is sitting here saying,
the people that are heading towards destruction,
many of them are being led there by false teaching.
So he's saying, hey, if you're wanting to
not head down the wide path,
then you need to be on guard for false teaching.
So let's look at this.
I wanna read these verses again.
Be on guard against false prophets or false teachers
who come to you in sheep's clothing,
but inwardly are ravaging wolves.
You'll recognize them by their fruit.
And then he says,
"Are grapes gathered from thorn bushes
"or figs from thistles?
"In the same way, every good tree produces good fruit,
"but the bad tree produces bad fruit.
"And a good tree can't produce bad fruit,
"and neither can a bad tree produce good fruit.
"But every tree that doesn't produce good fruit
"should cut it down, thrown into the fire,
"and you'll recognize them by their fruit."
So we're gonna specifically talk about leaders,
but this can apply to the Christian life as well.
If you're not producing fruit as a Christ follower,
that's probably proof again of the fruit of your life,
of no salvation or salvation based upon the fruit.
But we're gonna directly talk about the prophets here.
So he says this, "Be on guard, always look out for."
And so when I think about this, being on guard,
if you ever have watched the president go anywhere,
number one, before he ever goes there,
they send people out to scope out every area he goes to,
because what are they being?
On guard.
Then he puts a ton of guards around him, why?
to protect him from the enemy
that they think is always out there,
because you know what, there is an enemy
that's always out there trying to destroy the leader.
Does that not sound familiar?
Like if they're doing that for the president,
how much more should we as Christ followers
know when we have a greater enemy
that is out there trying to deceive us,
to go down the wide path that we should be on guard?
We should consistently be on guard.
The question is, and that's what I wanna ask you,
who should we be on guard against?
Somebody start naming some people.
Okay, the enemy, but let's start naming people in our life.
I'm waiting for the first person to say it.
Yourself, okay.
You should worry about pastors.
You should.
And I'm saying this, standing up here,
People who you give influence in your life,
friends, family, if they have influence
to be able to change how you live, you should be on guard.
Now, don't be a skeptic and always just be like,
and I'm not gonna believe anything they say.
What we do is we test it.
We evaluate it against what?
The word of God, the spirit of God inside of us
that draws us to conviction, whether this is right or wrong.
So I've said this over and over again as a pastor,
if there's a day I'm up here preaching
and there's something that you disagree with biblically
or conviction, please pull me aside and talk to me about it.
I have no problem being able to talk about that.
And don't be, here's the thing,
and if you're surprised that I'm gonna defend myself
based upon the word of God, don't be surprised about that.
We may come to disagreements,
but I would rather you, James 5, 19 and 20,
I would rather you turn me away from destruction
if I'm heading that direction.
I think every leader that doesn't give anybody
in their life that freedom
is a leader you shouldn't follow.
So that's one way we guard ourselves
is when we see this, right?
He talks about this, right?
What happens?
They disguise themselves as sheep,
but they're inwardly ravaging wolves.
So think about this.
They look just like you and me.
They look like they're a Christ follower.
Then he says, they disguise themselves
so that they can gain trust with you and with me.
And then ultimately, they devour and destroy you.
So what does it look like?
Well, he says, you'll know them by their fruit
or their ministry when we think about false prophets
or false teachers.
And so for the most part, they're gonna seem godly,
but there's gonna be areas of their lives
that produce ungodly fruit.
He says, you cannot produce godly fruit
from an ungodly tree, basically.
And so some examples for false teachers.
Number one, they magnify themselves above Jesus.
And I would say this, or they magnify other things
above Jesus.
Number two, they want something from people,
not for people.
I'm gonna say this again.
False teachers are people who want something from you,
but not something for you.
They want your money, they want your praise,
and they want more followers.
Number two, or three, there is three.
Their focus is more on the works of Jesus
than Jesus himself.
So, you know, I love the works of Jesus,
and I love the miracles of Jesus,
but Jesus is the only reason that we are saved,
not his miracles.
His miracles may prove part of who he is as Christ,
but it's Jesus.
And this is the last one that I think
that we need to stick to,
their teachings don't match up to the word of God.
That's why it's important for us to know the word of God.
How do we guard ourselves?
By knowing the truth.
We've talked about this probably several times
if I've preached.
People talk about this with money.
Our government doesn't study all this fake money.
Now they probably do study it a little bit.
They study more the truth, the actual money,
so that when fake money comes in,
they know when it's not real.
As believers, we need to spend more time in the Word,
knowing the Word, so that when false teachers,
family members, friends begin to say things
that are not the Word of God,
that are heading down the narrow or the broad path,
that you say, nope, that's not true.
It may be hard to say no,
it may be hard to stand up to them.
I'm telling you, it is, 'cause I've experienced it.
It is hard to stand up
because you don't wanna cause controversy.
You don't wanna be different, but at times you have to.
And I would always tell people this,
to be different doesn't mean you don't love them.
If they believe differently than you,
it actually means that you do love them
and you're not judging them as we've learned with judgment.
Judgment's all about restoration.
So when we're making judgments,
It's all about being helpful.
So understanding that is important, right?
So eventually these teachers who are on the broad road
to destruction will be destroyed.
He says they'll be cut down and thrown into the fire,
but here's what's gonna happen.
Those leaders, those teachers,
those people that are influencing you
that have had people that will follow them,
guess where they're heading?
Destruction.
And that's sad.
So when you look at this, I would say this,
we have a responsibility as we were heading
down the narrow road, as we are having people
that are trying to influence us
and point us to the destruction, right, the wide road,
that we have a responsibility to help people,
to not go down that broad road.
I don't ever quote this to the T,
but I know Spurgeon makes the statement,
this idea that we should be known as Christ followers
who are basically grabbing at people's feet
and holding on as they are heading into hell,
because we don't want them to go there.
We should be people that are pointing
and laughing and judging and saying,
I'm glad we're the remnant.
I'm glad we're the few.
No, we should be the people that until the day
that they die, until the day that they completely
reject Christ, that we should have our arms around them
and begging them not to go.
So when we look at this, how do we prepare
to know what false teachers are?
I would say this, we need to be,
I'm gonna shorten this for you, we need to be SFIs,
Spiritual fruit inspectors, okay?
SFIs, remember that one, spiritual fruit inspectors.
Now, don't go out to the apple tree and inspect that,
but how do we do this by studying the word of God?
And this is a challenge to you.
Psalm 119, 105 says this,
your word is a lamp for my feet and a light on my path.
I love how this sets up.
Your word is a lamp for my feet and a light on my path.
Towards what?
The narrow path.
That's what His word's there for,
to help us see the narrow path.
Because it is different, it is narrow.
Sometimes it is hard to find.
And without the word of God, we don't have the lamp,
and without the lamp, we go to the wide road,
which is the easier road.
So God's word is so important.
So then He goes back to, right, so He's talking about,
okay, narrow road, wide road.
Many people are heading to the wide road,
few are heading to the narrow road.
He says, "Watch out for these people
"that are pointing you to destruction, to the wide road."
And then he comes back to this and he says this,
"Not everyone who says to me,
"Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven,
"but only the one who does the will
"of the Father in heaven.
"On that day, many will say to me,
"Lord, Lord, didn't we prophesy in your name
"and drive out demons in your name
"and do many miracles in your name?
"And then I will announce to them,
"I never knew you, depart from me, you lawbreakers."
I'll just tell you this, you don't wanna hear that.
None of us wanna hear that.
Many of us wanna stand at the feet of Jesus
and hear him say, "Well done, good and faithful servant."
But I believe that more people that assume
that they'll get that statement,
"Well done, good and faithful servant,"
will actually hear, "I never knew you."
And at that point that you would hear that,
you have no ability to change it.
You have no ability to change it.
So this is really where Jesus is getting at.
We cannot fake our way into heaven, right?
Verses 13 through 21, enough, he continues on here, right?
Jesus first says here in 21 that just declaring him, Jesus,
as Lord will not get you into heaven.
Just because you profess verbally
that Jesus is Lord doesn't mean anything.
And I've said this all along,
at times where you'll catch me talking about love.
I can tell my wife, Brittany, I love her every day.
But I'll just tell you, if I don't support her,
I don't encourage her, if I treat her poorly.
Do you think me saying I love you a million times that day
changes anything?
No, my words mean nothing,
but my actions prove my words.
And so that's why I want you to hear this.
Do works save you?
Absolutely not.
Jesus, your faith in Jesus,
but your faith in Jesus does not leave you the same.
It changes you and transforms you into Christ.
And that moment of what Christ lived for,
what he brought into this world,
to have us experience this side of heaven.
And so I would say this, that yes, absolutely,
our actions prove our salvation.
100%, it proves it.
It does not make you saved.
So it's not enough to just talk the talk, right?
There's a lot of people who profess Jesus,
but are pretenders.
But he says, "But we must walk the walk."
So Jesus says, what must we do?
The will of the Father.
And if you're anything like me,
I'm this guy that's task-driven.
So if Jesus says, do the will of the Father,
and he gave me five bullet points,
every day I would probably grab those five bullet points
and I would go check, check, check, check, check,
I'm good, right?
But it seems at times where that seems
to be a moving target at some point.
How do we know the will of the Father?
Somebody tell me how we know the will of the Father.
The Holy Spirit, His Word.
I say this, pursuing the Lord, a relationship.
When I say a moving target, my life,
I don't know about anybody else,
my life doesn't look the same every day.
Some days I'm here, some days I'm there.
Emotionally, some days I'm here, some days I'm here.
Sometimes Brittany's mad at me.
She's always mad at me, I'm joking.
Sometimes she's mad at me, sometimes she's not.
What I'm saying is every day there's a moving target
in the fact that our lives are constantly moving.
Jesus isn't, so the constant is Jesus, the relationship.
The constant is Jesus, you have my life, you are my Lord,
and how I reflect that you are my Lord, right?
Lord, Lord, how I reflect that you are my Lord
is what is your will today?
If I'm gonna go live and work and play and do whatever,
what is it that you want me to do?
And the word of God begins to say this.
The Sermon on the Mount, if you go read it,
He says, to be basically doers of the word,
he begins to talk about how it is
to live in the kingdom of God.
So the word of God actually guides us
to be again, somebody who serves first.
Somebody who loves and forgives.
Somebody who consistently portrays the light of Christ.
Now, what you may be asking is,
does that mean I have to be perfect?
No, we're not talking about perfection here.
We're talking about somebody who would profess Jesus
and begin to live a life consistently without Jesus.
Are there days I make mistakes?
Honestly, are there moments that I consistently
make mistakes?
Yes, but conviction draws me back.
Conviction draws me back.
And so he's clear here, right?
That we can't miss this.
James 1:22 says to be doers of the word, not just hearers.
We can't be the Christians who just wear
the cross necklaces, profess Jesus when it's comfortable
and beneficial to us.
I would say this, obedience to the will of God
is the test of a true faith in Christ.
If you wanna know, am I a follower of Jesus today?
A true test of that is whether you are obeying the Lord
consistently in your life.
There's some quotes that I've kept for many years
and here's some that just really stick out to me.
It's not the truths you know that matter
or make the most difference in our lives.
It's the truths that you obey.
It's one act or one step of obedience
is worth more than years of studying about it.
What will end up happening is we wanna study
year after year after year before we ever obey Christ.
And I would say this, if we'll just obey Christ
and whatever we have learned, even if it's just today,
if we'll just obey Christ and whatever we learn,
we'll change the world and we'll begin to follow Christ
and he'll reveal more.
But too many times we want to know more,
we feel like we don't know enough.
But it's important to remember that Jesus is enough.
And that every day we have the opportunity to know more
and begin to obey more every day.
Every day we have the opportunity to do that.
And I'm thankful, and I love this,
when you guys keep mentioning the Spirit of God.
Because what you've probably heard me say today
is I've got to do all these things
to make sure that I'm saved.
And I would say this,
the Spirit of God puts a desire in your heart
to not do those things begrudgingly,
to not do those things
because you think that's what justifies you,
but to do those things out of desire.
You want to.
You want to add a way to say thank you to the Lord.
You want to because you know it's better.
It's better for you and it's better for those around you.
And I think it's interesting here.
It's important to remember that our words
are not a substitute for obedience.
And even Jesus indicates here in verses 22,
he even says this, I'm gonna read this verse 22.
He says, "Didn't we prophesy and didn't we drive out demons
"and all these things?"
And it was them basically making this statement.
They were confused.
They were completely confused
that Jesus was not allowing them into heaven.
And I wonder if we would say this, we would be confused
because we would say, didn't we get baptized?
And I'm just gonna dive in a little bit deeper here.
Didn't we teach in an inspire group?
Didn't we lead a ministry team?
Didn't we pastor a church?
If those are the things that we're beginning to lay out
before the Lord and he's gonna say this,
depart from me, you lawbreakers, I never knew you.
If every one of the reasons why we did those things
was out of selfish gain,
out of justification for ourselves
to feel like we are coming to the Lord,
we've missed the point.
And so I think that is concerning to me
and it challenges me today as we head into invitation this.
It's not, today is not about you doubting your salvation.
I'm hoping it's either affirming your salvation
and that you're on the right path.
I hope that if you veered off the path for a season,
that this is convicting you to come back, to come back.
'cause you know what our Lord does?
He says he forgives those who come to him.
Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened,
I will give you rest.
So maybe you've fallen off the path,
and Jesus says, my arms are wide open,
come back and experience the narrow path,
experience my love and grace and mercy and forgiveness.
But I also believe that today could be a day
where conviction reigns,
that you've truly never given your life to Christ,
and that you know that if you do not accept Christ,
you know where your eternity stands.
And that is a tough statement,
but I think it's also one that says,
wouldn't you want somebody,
if you're getting ready to walk in front of a bus
and get hit, pull you back, holler at you,
and if you chose to go in front of that bus,
it's your fault.
That's basically what we're saying today,
is we love you too much to let you walk out
in front of that bus without knowing what that means.
So again, it's a wake up call for all of us.
It's a wake up from pretending and complacency,
from assuming.
Being in church doesn't make you a Christian more,
basically as much as being a car in a garage makes you,
or being a person in a garage makes you a car.
It's that simple an understanding today
that we have to really ask this question.
Does my life or my profession match my life
and how I'm living my faith?
And so we're gonna go into the time of invitation
and we're continuing to focus on invitation this way.
We want you to take some time.
I'm gonna pose some questions to you.
You're gonna get an opportunity to just pray
and seek the Lord.
We'd love to be able to lead you in an invitation
because this allows you to know,
this is what I need to pray for,
and then begin to just talk to God
and let God minister to you and speak to you,
and we'll pray for a little bit of time,
and then we'll move on to the next topic.
But my challenge for you, don't leave out of here
without determining whether you are on the narrow path
or the wide path, because today is a day of salvation.
The Lord has brought this message for such a time
as this for every one of us.
So I'm gonna pray, and then I'm gonna start
leading us through some time of prayer
during an invitation.
So Lord Jesus, we thank you Lord for today.
We thank you for this message.
God, I just pray, including myself Lord,
I pray that you convict our hearts.
That Lord, during this time of invitation,
that Lord, as I'm leading this invitation for our people,
Lord, I am also praying.
Because Lord, I've seen some areas of my life, Lord,
that maybe I veered off.
So Lord, I pray that you bring us to repentance,
you bring us to the loving arms of Jesus,
that you help us, Lord, choose the hard and narrow path,
because we know it is greater.
So Lord, be with us as we go through
this time of invitation.
So here's what I want you guys to do right now
during invitation.
I want you to deeply seek the Lord.
And here's the first thing
that I want you to seek the Lord for.
I want you to just ask the Lord this question
and I pray that the Lord brings conviction in your life,
one way or the other.
Ask the Lord this question,
Lord, am I on the broad road or am I on the narrow road?
I just want you to start there.
Lord, am I on the broad road or the narrow road?
So just ask the Lord.
(gentle music)
So here's my hope is that the Lord responded to you
in some sort of conviction of positive or negative.
But now I want you to ask the Lord
if you've been on the narrow road,
is it you drifted?
Or have you always been on the narrow road?
So begin to just ask the Lord,
Have I truly given my life to you?
Is this just a time of drifting if I have?
If you are on the narrow road, Lord,
I just want you guys to say,
Lord, just thank you for helping me stay on that narrow road.
So just asking the Lord how you got to that narrow road,
or if you were on the wide road, Lord.
Just be present with the Lord and ask him.
(gentle music)
So here's my challenge,
is whatever the Lord has revealed to you,
if you've been on that wide road,
I just challenge you to repent and ask God to forgive you
and to help you come back to Him.
I pray that if you're sitting there right now
and you've been on that narrow road
and you've been just heading in the right direction,
just ask the Lord to sustain you
and continue to help you stay on that narrow path.
But just spend some time repenting
and coming back to the Lord if you've drifted
or thanking the Lord for staying on that path.
Just spend some time doing that.
(gentle music)
All right, now I want you to just ask the Lord
to just begin to remind you of people
who have influence in your life.
And then to ask him to help you avoid false teachers,
false people that are speaking lies to you.
Just ask the Lord to help you avoid those people
and to stand up strong for your faith.
(gentle music)
All right, so the last thing that I just wanna mention today
is if you're sitting here today in this service
and you know that you've been living your life
on the broad path,
that you've never given your life to Jesus,
then today you have the opportunity
to give your life to Jesus.
You have the opportunity to leave that path of destruction
and experience the path of righteousness
with a relationship with Jesus,
the better path that's open to everyone.
And so here's what I wanna do.
If that's you today and you wanna give your life to Jesus,
I wanna lead you in a prayer.
And here's what I love about our church,
no one prays alone.
No one prays alone, but there's someone in this room
that needs to give their lives to Jesus
and turn to that narrow path
and experience the life that Jesus has for you.
I want you to just pray with me.
And again, church, I wanna just encourage everybody
to pray together to help those in this room
that need that support to pray
and ask God to come into their lives.
So pray this with me, Lord Jesus,
come into my life, save me.
and forgive me, change my life,
and help me move from destruction to life.
Lord, be with me in the days ahead
and save me from my sins.
In Jesus' name, amen.
So I wanna challenge you if you prayed that with me,
if you believe that, that you will act,
which means this, that you will tell someone,
that you'll come tell me,
that you will not only just profess your faith to Jesus
through that prayer,
that you'll profess your faith to Jesus in your life.
And this is the one thing I love about our church
is our church supports those who are going
and choosing that life and taking steps of faith.
God loves you so much.
He loves each one of us.
And so we're gonna take some time to worship.
And here's my encouragement in this time to worship,
to continue that invitation,
to praise Him and continue to pray as you need to.
If you need to pray with someone,
I'm gonna be in the back, I would love to pray with you.
But let's stand and let's worship.
And praise the Lord.
I'll stay.
[Music]
[BLANK_AUDIO]